# Pixel
2D Platform game by Ivan Almaraz, implemented in c# created with Unity

## CS50G's Project: Final
Create a full game from scratch using either LÖVE or Unity.

## Distinctiveness and Complexity
This project is a 2D platformer implemented in c# and created using Unity. Four main parts make up the game, a main menu (the start of the game), levels to play, a pause menu(used when the player hits 'ESC' key), and an end credits scene. The game consists of a character named Pixel that the player must control using the arrow keys to move left and right. The main goal of the game is to make it to the end of each level and proceed until you defeat a boss on the last level. The spacebar key can be pressed to make Pixel jump. The spacebar can also be pressed to make the Pixel jump in the air, this is limited to only one jump while in the air. There are walls and ground that Pixel can use to wall slide. Pixel can jump from the wall and be allowed to jump again. Pixel can die by enemies, spikes, or fallling of the ledge. Pixel consits of a hit box on his feet to be used as a trigger against enemies to kill them.
    
There is three different enemies that can hurt Pixel. A pig that patrols from left to rigth between two points. The pig has an idle state and a walking state each state lasting a random few seconds. A rino that patrols between two points with a idle and running animation, these animation lasting a random few seconds. If the distance between Pixel and the rino are less than a certain amount the rino will attack/charge in the direction of Pixel. When the rino is in the this attack/charging state there is two different points that the rino will stay in between. When Pixel is far enough, the rino will change back to the idle/running animation. The final enemy is a tree trunk enemy that has six points of health. This enemy does not patrol but stands still in an idle state. When Pixel comes close enough the trunk will start shooting seeds (bullets) in Pixel's direction. The trunk will randomly jump and shoot a bullet while in the air. Pixel must avoid these seeds otherwise he will take damage. If Pixel comes a little closer, the trunk will start running in the direction of Pixel, otherwise if the trunk hits Pixel, Pixel will get knocked back a fairly good distance. After defeating the trunk the game proceedes to the end credits scene.

The game has items that Pixel can interact with. There are doors in the game that are closed, the player must maneuver Pixel to collect a key. Once Pixel has collected a key, the door can be opened. The player can push the up arrow to enter the door and proceed to the next level. Another item is the check points, Pixel can come into contact with a check point and an animation will play to let the player know that this is where Pixel will spawn in case of a death. There are floating platforms that Pixel can jump on. Once Pixel is on, the platform will move up and down betwen two points. Once Pixel jumps off the platform will return to its starting location. A Heart is another item that Pixel can pick up to gain one health point. If Pixel runs into spikes he will be hurt and get knocked back. Trampolines will cause Pixel to be bounced in the air, Pixel will have the ability to double jump in the air every time he jumps off a trampoline.

**Problems**
Pixel must be touching the ground to be able to do a normal jump and then double jump. I tried to play around with the player being able to fall of a ledge and be able to do both jump. I did accomplish this but the function in the trampoline script did not want to take away the regular jump. I think this is due to the way Unity runs scripts, I was not able to fix this problem so I kept it the way it is now. If I have time I would go back to change it because it does make for a better player experience. I also implemented some strawberries items that could be picked up but Decided to scratch that idea because it doesn't add anything to the game, sure I could add how many have been collected but doesn't serve any purpose. The floating platform sometimes glitch out when returning to thier original location, maybe adding a range would fix this problem but this is  good enough of this demo. 

## What’s contained in Scripts folder
- **AudioManager.cs**:

## How to run application